README.md, before:

FMElfinderBundle
================

[ElFinder](https://github.com/Studio-42/elFinder) integration in Symfony2

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/helios-ag/FMElfinderBundle.png)](http://travis-ci.org/helios-ag/FMElfinderBundle)
[![SensioLabsInsight](https://insight.sensiolabs.com/projects/604032ab-06ef-4ee2-b0cf-bb5240b9cd17/mini.png)](https://insight.sensiolabs.com/projects/604032ab-06ef-4ee2-b0cf-bb5240b9cd17)
[![Bitdeli Badge](https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/helios-ag/fmelfinderbundle/trend.png)](https://bitdeli.com/free "Bitdeli Badge")
[![Dependency Status](https://www.versioneye.com/user/projects/53db56ae4b3ac897b60001d4/badge.svg?style=flat)](https://www.versioneye.com/user/projects/53db56ae4b3ac897b60001d4)

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle) [![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle/downloads.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle) [![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle/v/unstable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle) [![License](https://poser.pugx.org/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle)

elFinder is an open-source file manager for web, written in JavaScript using jQuery UI.
Creation is inspired by simplicity and convenience of Finder program used in Mac OS X operating system.

Recommended bundles to use with:

* [TinymceBundle](https://github.com/stfalcon/TinymceBundle/)
* [IvoryCKEditorBundle](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/)
* [TrsteelCkeditorBundle](https://github.com/trsteel88/TrsteelCkeditorBundle)


  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Step 1: Installation](#step-1-installation)
    - [Step 2: Enable the bundle](#step-2-enable-the-bundle)
    - [Step 3: Import FMElfinderBundle routing file](#step-3-import-fmelfinderbundle-routing-file)
    - [Step 4: Configure your application's security.yml](#step-4-configure-your-applications-securityyml)
    - [Step 5: Install assets](#step-5-install-assets)
  - [Basic configuration](#basic-configuration)
    - [Add configuration options to your config.yml](#add-configuration-options-to-your-configyml)
  - [Plugins support](#plugins-support)
  - [Configuring symfony service as a volumeDriver](#configuring-symfony-service-as-a-volumedriver)
  - [Elfinder Form Type](#elfinder-form-type)
  - [Using ElFinder with [CKEditorBundle](https://github.com/trsteel88/TrsteelCkeditorBundle)](#using-elfinder-with-ckeditorbundlehttpsgithubcomtrsteel88trsteelckeditorbundle)
    - [Step 1: Installation:](#step-1-installation)
    - [Step 2: Configure CKEditor setting via settings.yml or through form builder:](#step-2-configure-ckeditor-setting-via-settingsyml-or-through-form-builder)
  - [Using ElFinder with TinyMCE](#using-elfinder-with-tinymce)
    - [Using ElfinderBundle with [TinyMCEBundle](https://github.com/stfalcon/TinymceBundle)](#using-elfinderbundle-with-tinymcebundlehttpsgithubcomstfalcontinymcebundle)
    - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [Integration with TinyMCE 4.x](#integration-with-tinymce-4x)
- [Custom configuration provider](#custom-configuration-provider)
- [Custom loader](#custom-loader)
- [Changelog](#changelog)

## Installation

To install this bundle, you'll need both the lib [ElFinderPHP](https://github.com/helios-ag/ElFinderPHP)
and this bundle.

This instruction explain how to setup bundle on Symfony 2.1 and newer

### Step 1: Installation

Install legacy version of the bundle ([documentation](https://github.com/helios-ag/FMElfinderBundle/blob/1.0/README.md)):


```sh
    composer require helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle: "~1.5" 
```


For Symfony between 2.1 and 2.3 (2.3 included) use version ~2.3


```sh
    composer require helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle: "~2.3"
```


For Symfony 2.4 and later use version 3


```sh
    composer require helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle 
```


Now tell composer to download the bundle by running the command:


```sh
    composer update helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle
```

### Step 2: Enable the bundle

Enable the bundle in the kernel:

``` php
<?php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new FM\ElfinderBundle\FMElfinderBundle(),
    );
}
```
### Step 3: Import FMElfinderBundle routing file

``` yaml
# app/config/routing.yml
elfinder:
     resource: "@FMElfinderBundle/Resources/config/routing.yml"
```

### Step 4: Configure your application's security.yml

Secure ElFinder with access_control:
``` yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:

    //....
    access_control:
        - { path: ^/efconnect, role: ROLE_USER }
        - { path: ^/elfinder, role: ROLE_USER }

```
role ROLE_USER is provided as example.


### Step 5: Install assets

Install and dump assets using symfony built-in commands:

```sh
app/console assets:install web
```

## Basic configuration

### Add configuration options to your config.yml

```
fm_elfinder:
    instances:
        default:
            locale: %locale% # defaults to current request locale
            editor: ckeditor # other options are tinymce, tinymce4, form, custom and simple, 
            fullscreen: true # defaults true, applies to simple and ckeditor editors
            include_assets: true # disable if you want to handle loading of the javascript and css assets yourself
            connector:
                debug: false # defaults to false
                roots:       # at least one root must be defined
                    uploads:
                        showhidden: false # defaults to false
                        driver: LocalFileSystem
                        path: uploads
                        upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                        upload_deny: ['all']
                        upload_max_size: 2M
```
* default - instance of elfinder, can be used to define multiple configurations of ElFinder, allows simultaneous configuration for different types of WYSIWYG editors in your project
* path - define root directory for the files inside web/ directory, default is "uploads". Make sure to set proper write/read permissions to this directory.
* url - url to be prefixed to image path, for displaying. Can be either absolute or relative. If relative, it will be prefixed with the applications base-url. If left blank, url will be the base-url, appened with the value of the 'path' parameter
* driver - can be LocalFileSystem, FTP or MySQL2, currently supported only LocalFileSystem, default is LocalFileSystem
* locale - locale determines, which language, ElFinder will use, to translate user interface, default is current request locale
* editor - determines what template to render, to be compatible with WYSIWYG web editor, currently supported options are:
 "ckeditor", "tinymce" for tinymce3, "tinymce4" for tinymce4, "form" for form type, "simple" and "custom". 
 How to configure CKEDitor and TinyMCE to work with this bundle, will be explained further in this document.
 "simple" can be used as standalone filebrowser for managing and uploading files.
* editor_template - define template to renderer editor is set to "custom".
* showhidden - hides directories starting with . (dot)
* connector - root node for defining options for elfinder root directiories and debug option
* roots - define "virtual directories" that reflect directories in your project. 
    * showhidden - show files and folders that starts from . (dot)
    * driver - driver type, LocalFileSystem, Dropbox, FTP 
    * path - directory that contains files
    * upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg'] 
    * upload_deny: ['all'] 
    * upload_max_size: 2M 
    
## Plugins support

ElFinder comes with few plugins, like auto-resize, which can be enabled, by the following configuration:

```yaml
fm_elfinder:
  instances:
    tinymce:
      locale: %locale%
      editor: tinymce4 
      include_assets: true
      relative_path: true
      fullscreen: true
      connector:
          debug: true # defaults to false
          bind:
              upload.presave:
                  - Plugin.AutoResize.onUpLoadPreSave
          plugin:
              AutoResize: # global resize options, applies to root which don't have his own resize configuraion 
                  enable: true 
                  maxWidth: 750 
                  maxHeight: 750 
                  quality: 95 # JPEG image save quality
          roots:       # at least one root must be defined
              uploads:
                  driver: LocalFileSystem
                  path: uploads
                  plugin:
                      AutoResize:
                          enable: true 
                          maxWidth: 500 
                          maxHeight: 500 
                          quality: 95 # JPEG image save quality
                  upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                  upload_deny: ['all']
                  upload_max_size: 2M
              resize1:
                  driver: LocalFileSystem
                  path: uploads
                  plugin:
                      AutoResize:
                          enable: true # For control by volume driver
                          maxWidth: 800 # Path to Water mark image
                          maxHeight: 800 # Margin right pixel
                          quality: 95 # JPEG image save quality
                  upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                  upload_deny: ['all']
                  upload_max_size: 2M
              resize2:
                  driver: LocalFileSystem
                  path: uploads
                  plugin:
                      AutoResize:
                          enable: true
                          maxWidth: 800 
                          maxHeight: 800 
                          quality: 95 
                  upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                  upload_deny: ['all']
                  upload_max_size: 2M
```                     

ElFinder comes with other plugins, check it Plugins folder for more information.

## Configuring symfony service as a volumeDriver
volumeDriver can be declared as Symfony service
The service should however be an instance of the FM\ElFinderPHP\Driver\ElFinderVolumeDriver class. This check is to
ensure the service is a valid ElFinder VolumeDriver.

To configure a root with a service-driver you can simply use the service id as the drive key:

```
fm_elfinder:
    connector:
        roots:
            uploads:
                driver: elfinder.driver.filesystem
                path: uploads
```

This means that if you add the service definition:

```xml
<service id="elfinder.driver.filesystem" class="FM\ElFinderPHP\Driver\ElFinderVolumeLocalFileSystem" />
```

## Elfinder Form Type

Since version 2.1 of the bundle, bundle come with custom form type, that is simple <input type="text"/> , that provide
elfinder callback (opens Elfinder window), configuration for this form type is simple
First, define instance with editor setted to "form":
```
fm_elfinder:
    instances:
        form:
            locale: %locale% # defaults to current request locale
            editor: form # other choices are tinymce or simple, and form
            showhidden: false # defaults to false
            fullscreen: true # defaults true, applies to simple and ckeditor editors
            include_assets: true # disable if you want to handle loading of the javascript and css assets yourself
            compression: false # enable if you configured the uglifycss and uglifyjs2 assetic filters and want compression
            connector:
                debug: false # defaults to false
                roots:       # at least one root must be defined
                    uploads:
                        driver: LocalFileSystem
                        path: uploads
                        upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                        upload_deny: ['all']
                        upload_max_size: 2M
```

On second step, add to your form builder (or form class), elfinder type, and pass instance and enable parameters:

```php
$form = $this->createFormBuilder()
    ->add('elfinder','elfinder', array('instance'=>'form', 'enable'=>true))
    ->getForm();
```

Render form with twig as usual:
```jinja
<form action="" method="post" {{ form_enctype(form) }}>
        {{ form_widget(form) }}
        <input type="submit" />
    </form>
```

## Using ElFinder with [CKEditorBundle](https://github.com/trsteel88/TrsteelCkeditorBundle)

Mostly filebrowsers used with WYSIWYG editors to upload images and other files. The example above will show how to
configure [CKEditorBundle](https://github.com/trsteel88/TrsteelCkeditorBundle) by Trsteel to work with ElFinder
through [FMElFinderBundle](https://github.com/helios-ag/FMElFinderBundle)
Also take a view to @egeloen [IvoryCKEditorBundle](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle), which includes
[configuration guide](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/file_browse_upload.md) for both bundles

### Step 1: Installation:

Install both bundles according README files

### Step 2: Configure CKEditor setting via settings.yml or through form builder:

```yml
trsteel_ckeditor:
    ...
    filebrowser_image_browse_url:
        route: elfinder
        route_parameters:
             instance: ckeditor
```

or if you prefer Ivory CKEditor Bundle

```yml
ivory_ck_editor:
    default_config: default
    configs:
        default:
            filebrowserBrowseRoute: elfinder
            filebrowserBrowseRouteParameters:
                instance: ckeditor

```

Note that instance name should be the same as configured in elfinder bundle

```php

<?php
// applies to Ivory CKEditor Bundle
$form = $this->createFormBuilder()
            ->add('content', 'ckeditor', array(
                'config' => array(
                    'filebrowser_image_browse_url' => array(
                        'route'            => 'elfinder',
                        'route_parameters' => array('instance' => 'ckeditor'),
                    ),
                ),
            ))
            ->getForm()
;
```

ElFinder will be available under Insert Image dialog

## Using ElFinder with TinyMCE

You can integrate TinyMCE byself or use Bundles that already add TinyMCE functionality to your Symfony project.
Below instruction how to integrate [FMElfinderBundle](https://github.com/helios-ag/FMElfinderBundle) with [TinyMCEBundle](https://github.com/stfalcon/TinymceBundle)

### Using ElfinderBundle with [TinyMCEBundle](https://github.com/stfalcon/TinymceBundle)
Instruction for bundle version 0.2.1 (TinyMCE 3.x), instruction for TinyMCE 4.x, you can find at the end of this
document.
Download both bundles, configure, dump and install assets as written in installation steps

### Configuration

Update the editor property in your app/config.yml
Set TinyMce popup path:
```yaml
fm_elfinder:
    editor: tinymce
    tinymce_popup_path: "asset[bundles/stfalcontinymce/vendor/tiny_mce/tiny_mce_popup.js]"
```
Under tinymce configuration node, theme configuration, add:
file_browser_callback : 'elFinderBrowser'

```yaml
stfalcon_tinymce:
    theme:
        simple:
            file_browser_callback : 'elFinderBrowser'
```

after (  {{ tinymce_init() }} ) function call
place ElfinderBundle's function:
 
```jinja
{{ elfinder_tinymce_init('instance_name', {'width':'900', 'height': '450', 'title':'ElFinder 2.0'}) }}
```

as shown below

```jinja
{{ tinymce_init() }}
{{ elfinder_tinymce_init('instance_name') }}
```

instance_name is an instance of elfinder's configuration

### Integration with TinyMCE 4.x

Update the editor property in your app/config.yml

```yaml
 fm_elfinder:
     editor: tinymce4
```

Under tinymce configuration node, theme configuration, add:
 file_browser_callback : elFinderBrowser

```yaml
stfalcon_tinymce:
     theme:
         simple:
             file_browser_callback : elFinderBrowser
```

before (  {{ tinymce_init() }} ) function call (order is important)
place ElfinderBundle's function: 
{{ elfinder_tinymce_init4('instance_name', {'width':'900', 'height': '450', 'title':'ElFinder 2.0'} ) }}
as shown below

```jinja
     {{ elfinder_tinymce_init4('instance_name') }}
     {{ tinymce_init() }}
```

instance_name is instance of elfinder's configuration

That's all, Elfinder is configured to work with TinyMCE editor.

#Custom configuration provider

ElFinder bundle allows to override his configuration provider service:

```yaml
fm_elfinder:
    configuration_provider: elfinder.configurator
```
where 'elfinder.configurator' is default ElFinder's bundle service to read configuration from DIC

To override service, simply define your own service:
```yaml
services:
    my_elfinder_configurator:
        class:        Acme\DemoBundle\MyElfinderConfigurator
        arguments:    ["%my_arguments%"]
```

Configuration class must implement  ElFinderConfigurationProviderInterface

method getConfiguration($instance) should return array of parameters compatible with ElFinder bundle configuration

#Custom loader

It is possible to override loader service with your own class:

```yaml
services:
    my_loader:
        class:        AppBundle\Service\MyElFinderLoader
        arguments:    [@fm_elfinder.configurator]
        
fm_elfinder:
  loader: my_loader
```

 

#Changelog

### 3.4
* Custom template renderer

### 3.3
* Plugins support

### 3.2
* Assetic support removed

### 3.1
* Plugins support
 
### 3.0
* BC in public api (controllers showAction method with second parameter)
 
### 2.5
* Version with Request_stack    

### 2.3.3
* Assetic support removed

### 2.3.2
* Multiple form types on the same page

### 2.3
* Version for the LTS Symfony (2.3.x) (without RequestStack usage)

### 2.1
* New Elfinder form type, provides basic <input type="text"/> field with Elfinder callback

### 2.0
* Multiple instances of elfinder configuration (allows multiple editors in one project, with different elfinder configurations)

### 1.4
* Dropped YUI compression support.
* Uglify JS/CSS optional compression.

### 1.3
* TinyMCE 4 integration
* Added link to IvoryCKEditorBundle in Readme
* Minor improvements
* Readme TOC

Commit message:

multiple upload folder by instance

README.md, after:

FMElfinderBundle
================

[ElFinder](https://github.com/Studio-42/elFinder) integration in Symfony2

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/helios-ag/FMElfinderBundle.png)](http://travis-ci.org/helios-ag/FMElfinderBundle)
[![SensioLabsInsight](https://insight.sensiolabs.com/projects/604032ab-06ef-4ee2-b0cf-bb5240b9cd17/mini.png)](https://insight.sensiolabs.com/projects/604032ab-06ef-4ee2-b0cf-bb5240b9cd17)
[![Bitdeli Badge](https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/helios-ag/fmelfinderbundle/trend.png)](https://bitdeli.com/free "Bitdeli Badge")
[![Dependency Status](https://www.versioneye.com/user/projects/53db56ae4b3ac897b60001d4/badge.svg?style=flat)](https://www.versioneye.com/user/projects/53db56ae4b3ac897b60001d4)

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle) [![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle/downloads.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle) [![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle/v/unstable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle) [![License](https://poser.pugx.org/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle)

elFinder is an open-source file manager for web, written in JavaScript using jQuery UI.
Creation is inspired by simplicity and convenience of Finder program used in Mac OS X operating system.

Recommended bundles to use with:

* [TinymceBundle](https://github.com/stfalcon/TinymceBundle/)
* [IvoryCKEditorBundle](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/)
* [TrsteelCkeditorBundle](https://github.com/trsteel88/TrsteelCkeditorBundle)


  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Step 1: Installation](#step-1-installation)
    - [Step 2: Enable the bundle](#step-2-enable-the-bundle)
    - [Step 3: Import FMElfinderBundle routing file](#step-3-import-fmelfinderbundle-routing-file)
    - [Step 4: Configure your application's security.yml](#step-4-configure-your-applications-securityyml)
    - [Step 5: Install assets](#step-5-install-assets)
  - [Basic configuration](#basic-configuration)
    - [Add configuration options to your config.yml](#add-configuration-options-to-your-configyml)
  - [Plugins support](#plugins-support)
  - [Configuring symfony service as a volumeDriver](#configuring-symfony-service-as-a-volumedriver)
  - [Elfinder Form Type](#elfinder-form-type)
  - [Using ElFinder with [CKEditorBundle](https://github.com/trsteel88/TrsteelCkeditorBundle)](#using-elfinder-with-ckeditorbundlehttpsgithubcomtrsteel88trsteelckeditorbundle)
    - [Step 1: Installation:](#step-1-installation)
    - [Step 2: Configure CKEditor setting via settings.yml or through form builder:](#step-2-configure-ckeditor-setting-via-settingsyml-or-through-form-builder)
  - [Using ElFinder with TinyMCE](#using-elfinder-with-tinymce)
    - [Using ElfinderBundle with [TinyMCEBundle](https://github.com/stfalcon/TinymceBundle)](#using-elfinderbundle-with-tinymcebundlehttpsgithubcomstfalcontinymcebundle)
    - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [Integration with TinyMCE 4.x](#integration-with-tinymce-4x)
- [Custom configuration provider](#custom-configuration-provider)
- [Custom loader](#custom-loader)
- [Changelog](#changelog)

## Installation

To install this bundle, you'll need both the lib [ElFinderPHP](https://github.com/helios-ag/ElFinderPHP)
and this bundle.

This instruction explain how to setup bundle on Symfony 2.1 and newer

### Step 1: Installation

Install legacy version of the bundle ([documentation](https://github.com/helios-ag/FMElfinderBundle/blob/1.0/README.md)):


```sh
    composer require helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle: "~1.5" 
```


For Symfony between 2.1 and 2.3 (2.3 included) use version ~2.3


```sh
    composer require helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle: "~2.3"
```


For Symfony 2.4 and later use version 3


```sh
    composer require helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle 
```


Now tell composer to download the bundle by running the command:


```sh
    composer update helios-ag/fm-elfinder-bundle
```

### Step 2: Enable the bundle

Enable the bundle in the kernel:

``` php
<?php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new FM\ElfinderBundle\FMElfinderBundle(),
    );
}
```
### Step 3: Import FMElfinderBundle routing file

``` yaml
# app/config/routing.yml
elfinder:
     resource: "@FMElfinderBundle/Resources/config/routing.yml"
```

### Step 4: Configure your application's security.yml

Secure ElFinder with access_control:
``` yaml
# app/config/security.yml
security:

    //....
    access_control:
        - { path: ^/efconnect, role: ROLE_USER }
        - { path: ^/elfinder, role: ROLE_USER }

```
role ROLE_USER is provided as example.


### Step 5: Install assets

Install and dump assets using symfony built-in commands:

```sh
app/console assets:install web
```

## Basic configuration

### Add configuration options to your config.yml

```yaml
fm_elfinder:
    instances:
        default:
            locale: %locale% # defaults to current request locale
            editor: ckeditor # other options are tinymce, tinymce4, form, custom and simple, 
            fullscreen: true # defaults true, applies to simple and ckeditor editors
            include_assets: true # disable if you want to handle loading of the javascript and css assets yourself
            connector:
                debug: false # defaults to false
                roots:       # at least one root must be defined
                    uploads:
                        showhidden: false # defaults to false
                        driver: LocalFileSystem
                        path: uploads # root path. You can add a home path (e.g. for multiple users) in the URL used to access this instance.
                        upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                        upload_deny: ['all']
                        upload_max_size: 2M
```
* default - instance of elfinder, can be used to define multiple configurations of ElFinder, allows simultaneous configuration for different types of WYSIWYG editors in your project
* path - define root directory for the files inside web/ directory, default is "uploads". Make sure to set proper write/read permissions to this directory.
 You can also define a home folder for this instance's root path when accessing the instance : `elfinder/{instance}/{homeFolder} or efconnect/{instance}/{homeFolder}` (defaults empty).
 This allows you to use multiple root folders (e.g. for multiple users) with only one instance setting :
 Bob's home : `elfinder/{instance}/{homeFolder}`
 Alice's home : `elfinder/{instance}/{homeFolder}`
 Make sure to set proper write/read permissions on home folders.
* url - url to be prefixed to image path, for displaying. Can be either absolute or relative. If relative, it will be prefixed with the applications base-url. If left blank, url will be the base-url, appened with the value of the 'path' parameter
* driver - can be LocalFileSystem, FTP or MySQL2, currently supported only LocalFileSystem, default is LocalFileSystem
* locale - locale determines, which language, ElFinder will use, to translate user interface, default is current request locale
* editor - determines what template to render, to be compatible with WYSIWYG web editor, currently supported options are:
 "ckeditor", "tinymce" for tinymce3, "tinymce4" for tinymce4, "form" for form type, "simple" and "custom". 
 How to configure CKEDitor and TinyMCE to work with this bundle, will be explained further in this document.
 "simple" can be used as standalone filebrowser for managing and uploading files.
* editor_template - define template to renderer editor is set to "custom".
* showhidden - hides directories starting with . (dot)
* connector - root node for defining options for elfinder root directiories and debug option
* roots - define "virtual directories" that reflect directories in your project. 
    * showhidden - show files and folders that starts from . (dot)
    * driver - driver type, LocalFileSystem, Dropbox, FTP 
    * path - directory that contains files
    * upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg'] 
    * upload_deny: ['all'] 
    * upload_max_size: 2M 
    
## Plugins support

ElFinder comes with few plugins, like auto-resize, which can be enabled, by the following configuration:

```yaml
fm_elfinder:
  instances:
    tinymce:
      locale: %locale%
      editor: tinymce4 
      include_assets: true
      relative_path: true
      fullscreen: true
      connector:
          debug: true # defaults to false
          bind:
              upload.presave:
                  - Plugin.AutoResize.onUpLoadPreSave
          plugin:
              AutoResize: # global resize options, applies to root which don't have his own resize configuraion 
                  enable: true 
                  maxWidth: 750 
                  maxHeight: 750 
                  quality: 95 # JPEG image save quality
          roots:       # at least one root must be defined
              uploads:
                  driver: LocalFileSystem
                  path: uploads
                  plugin:
                      AutoResize:
                          enable: true 
                          maxWidth: 500 
                          maxHeight: 500 
                          quality: 95 # JPEG image save quality
                  upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                  upload_deny: ['all']
                  upload_max_size: 2M
              resize1:
                  driver: LocalFileSystem
                  path: uploads
                  plugin:
                      AutoResize:
                          enable: true # For control by volume driver
                          maxWidth: 800 # Path to Water mark image
                          maxHeight: 800 # Margin right pixel
                          quality: 95 # JPEG image save quality
                  upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                  upload_deny: ['all']
                  upload_max_size: 2M
              resize2:
                  driver: LocalFileSystem
                  path: uploads
                  plugin:
                      AutoResize:
                          enable: true
                          maxWidth: 800 
                          maxHeight: 800 
                          quality: 95 
                  upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                  upload_deny: ['all']
                  upload_max_size: 2M
```                     

ElFinder comes with other plugins, check it Plugins folder for more information.

## Configuring symfony service as a volumeDriver
volumeDriver can be declared as Symfony service
The service should however be an instance of the FM\ElFinderPHP\Driver\ElFinderVolumeDriver class. This check is to
ensure the service is a valid ElFinder VolumeDriver.

To configure a root with a service-driver you can simply use the service id as the drive key:

```
fm_elfinder:
    connector:
        roots:
            uploads:
                driver: elfinder.driver.filesystem
                path: uploads
```

This means that if you add the service definition:

```xml
<service id="elfinder.driver.filesystem" class="FM\ElFinderPHP\Driver\ElFinderVolumeLocalFileSystem" />
```

## Elfinder Form Type

Since version 2.1 of the bundle, bundle come with custom form type, that is simple <input type="text"/> , that provide
elfinder callback (opens Elfinder window), configuration for this form type is simple
First, define instance with editor setted to "form":
```
fm_elfinder:
    instances:
        form:
            locale: %locale% # defaults to current request locale
            editor: form # other choices are tinymce or simple, and form
            showhidden: false # defaults to false
            fullscreen: true # defaults true, applies to simple and ckeditor editors
            include_assets: true # disable if you want to handle loading of the javascript and css assets yourself
            compression: false # enable if you configured the uglifycss and uglifyjs2 assetic filters and want compression
            connector:
                debug: false # defaults to false
                roots:       # at least one root must be defined
                    uploads:
                        driver: LocalFileSystem
                        path: uploads
                        upload_allow: ['image/png', 'image/jpg', 'image/jpeg']
                        upload_deny: ['all']
                        upload_max_size: 2M
```

On second step, add to your form builder (or form class), elfinder type, and pass instance and enable parameters:

```php
$form = $this->createFormBuilder()
    ->add('elfinder','elfinder', array('instance'=>'form', 'enable'=>true))
    ->getForm();
```

Render form with twig as usual:
```jinja
<form action="" method="post" {{ form_enctype(form) }}>
        {{ form_widget(form) }}
        <input type="submit" />
    </form>
```

## Using ElFinder with [CKEditorBundle](https://github.com/trsteel88/TrsteelCkeditorBundle)

Mostly filebrowsers used with WYSIWYG editors to upload images and other files. The example above will show how to
configure [CKEditorBundle](https://github.com/trsteel88/TrsteelCkeditorBundle) by Trsteel to work with ElFinder
through [FMElFinderBundle](https://github.com/helios-ag/FMElFinderBundle)
Also take a view to @egeloen [IvoryCKEditorBundle](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle), which includes
[configuration guide](https://github.com/egeloen/IvoryCKEditorBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/file_browse_upload.md) for both bundles

### Step 1: Installation:

Install both bundles according README files

### Step 2: Configure CKEditor setting via settings.yml or through form builder:

```yml
trsteel_ckeditor:
    ...
    filebrowser_image_browse_url:
        route: elfinder
        route_parameters:
             instance: ckeditor
```

or if you prefer Ivory CKEditor Bundle

```yml
ivory_ck_editor:
    default_config: default
    configs:
        default:
            filebrowserBrowseRoute: elfinder
            filebrowserBrowseRouteParameters:
                instance: ckeditor

```

Note that instance name should be the same as configured in elfinder bundle

```php

<?php
// applies to Ivory CKEditor Bundle
$form = $this->createFormBuilder()
            ->add('content', 'ckeditor', array(
                'config' => array(
                    'filebrowser_image_browse_url' => array(
                        'route'            => 'elfinder',
                        'route_parameters' => array('instance' => 'ckeditor'),
                    ),
                ),
            ))
            ->getForm()
;
```

ElFinder will be available under Insert Image dialog

## Using ElFinder with TinyMCE

You can integrate TinyMCE byself or use Bundles that already add TinyMCE functionality to your Symfony project.
Below instruction how to integrate [FMElfinderBundle](https://github.com/helios-ag/FMElfinderBundle) with [TinyMCEBundle](https://github.com/stfalcon/TinymceBundle)

### Using ElfinderBundle with [TinyMCEBundle](https://github.com/stfalcon/TinymceBundle)
Instruction for bundle version 0.2.1 (TinyMCE 3.x), instruction for TinyMCE 4.x, you can find at the end of this
document.
Download both bundles, configure, dump and install assets as written in installation steps

### Configuration

Update the editor property in your app/config.yml
Set TinyMce popup path:
```yaml
fm_elfinder:
    editor: tinymce
    tinymce_popup_path: "asset[bundles/stfalcontinymce/vendor/tiny_mce/tiny_mce_popup.js]"
```
Under tinymce configuration node, theme configuration, add:
file_browser_callback : 'elFinderBrowser'

```yaml
stfalcon_tinymce:
    theme:
        simple:
            file_browser_callback : 'elFinderBrowser'
```

after (  {{ tinymce_init() }} ) function call
place ElfinderBundle's function:
 
```jinja
{{ elfinder_tinymce_init('instance_name', {'width':'900', 'height': '450', 'title':'ElFinder 2.0'}) }}
```

as shown below

```jinja
{{ tinymce_init() }}
{{ elfinder_tinymce_init('instance_name') }}
```

instance_name is an instance of elfinder's configuration

### Integration with TinyMCE 4.x

Update the editor property in your app/config.yml

```yaml
 fm_elfinder:
     editor: tinymce4
```

Under tinymce configuration node, theme configuration, add:
 file_browser_callback : elFinderBrowser

```yaml
stfalcon_tinymce:
     theme:
         simple:
             file_browser_callback : elFinderBrowser
```

before (  {{ tinymce_init() }} ) function call (order is important)
place ElfinderBundle's function: 
{{ elfinder_tinymce_init4('instance_name', {'width':'900', 'height': '450', 'title':'ElFinder 2.0'} ) }}
as shown below

```jinja
     {{ elfinder_tinymce_init4('instance_name') }}
     {{ tinymce_init() }}
```

instance_name is instance of elfinder's configuration

That's all, Elfinder is configured to work with TinyMCE editor.

#Custom configuration provider

ElFinder bundle allows to override his configuration provider service:

```yaml
fm_elfinder:
    configuration_provider: elfinder.configurator
```
where 'elfinder.configurator' is default ElFinder's bundle service to read configuration from DIC

To override service, simply define your own service:
```yaml
services:
    my_elfinder_configurator:
        class:        Acme\DemoBundle\MyElfinderConfigurator
        arguments:    ["%my_arguments%"]
```

Configuration class must implement  ElFinderConfigurationProviderInterface

method getConfiguration($instance) should return array of parameters compatible with ElFinder bundle configuration

#Custom loader

It is possible to override loader service with your own class:

```yaml
services:
    my_loader:
        class:        AppBundle\Service\MyElFinderLoader
        arguments:    [@fm_elfinder.configurator]
        
fm_elfinder:
  loader: my_loader
```

 

#Changelog

### 3.4
* Custom template renderer

### 3.3
* Plugins support

### 3.2
* Assetic support removed

### 3.1
* Plugins support
 
### 3.0
* BC in public api (controllers showAction method with second parameter)
 
### 2.5
* Version with Request_stack    

### 2.3.3
* Assetic support removed

### 2.3.2
* Multiple form types on the same page

### 2.3
* Version for the LTS Symfony (2.3.x) (without RequestStack usage)

### 2.1
* New Elfinder form type, provides basic <input type="text"/> field with Elfinder callback

### 2.0
* Multiple instances of elfinder configuration (allows multiple editors in one project, with different elfinder configurations)

### 1.4
* Dropped YUI compression support.
* Uglify JS/CSS optional compression.

### 1.3
* TinyMCE 4 integration
* Added link to IvoryCKEditorBundle in Readme
* Minor improvements
* Readme TOC
